net: openthread: Introduce OpenThread build report for NCS (#17094)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/protocols/thread/certification.rst

Depending on your development approach, you have several certification options when using Nordic Semiconductor devices.

> You will need to analyze the :ref:`ug_thread_build_report` to check whether there is a proper Thread version and library used for the certification process and if there are no changes that may affect the certification by inheritance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will need to analyze the :ref:`ug_thread_build_report` to check that there is a proper Thread version and library used for the certification process and that there are no changes that may affect the certification by inheritance.
```

To add an nRF52840 DK, drag the nRF52840 DK and drop it on the test bed configuration page.
After that, the device is configured and the :ref:`proper baud rate (115200) <test_and_optimize>` and COM port are set.

.. _ug_thread_build_report:

OpenThread build report
***********************

> The OpenThread build report contains information about the current |NCS| and OpenThread revisions, Thread feature set, Thread library path and changes in the :ref:`nrfxlib:nrfxlib` repository in comparison with the latest |NCS| release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The OpenThread build report contains information about:

 * The current |NCS| and OpenThread revisions.
 * The Thread feature set and Thread library path.
 * Changes in the :ref:`nrfxlib:nrfxlib` repository in comparison to the latest |NCS| release.
```
I think it'll read better as a list like this.

The report is generated to the output console log, and stored as an additional build artefact in the application build directory.

> To enable building the Thread report set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_OPENTHREAD_REPORT` kconfig option to ``y``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable building the OpenThread report, set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_OPENTHREAD_REPORT` kconfig option to ``y``.
```

> To enable building the Thread report set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_OPENTHREAD_REPORT` kconfig option to ``y``.

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't we just enable it by default?

Author: It may be default if for example L2_OPENTHREAD config is enabled. @LuDuda what do you think, do you want to have it enabled by default?

> To disable generating the build artefact set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_OPENTHREAD_REPORT_BUILD_ARTEFACT` kconfig option to ``n``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can disable generating the build artefact by setting the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_OPENTHREAD_REPORT_BUILD_ARTEFACT` kconfig option to ``n``.
```
Since this is more an option than something that needs to be done.

> By default the report artefact name is set to the :file:`ot_report.txt`, but you can specify your own name by setting the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_OPENTHREAD_REPORT_BUILD_ARTEFACT_NAME` kconfig value to the new one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the build artefact name is set as :file:`ot_report.txt`, but you can specify a different name by setting the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_OPENTHREAD_REPORT_BUILD_ARTEFACT_NAME` kconfig value to the new one.
```

> While building the application using the :ref:`nrfxlib:ot_libs` you will see the following logs in your build console:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When building the application using the :ref:`nrfxlib:ot_libs`, you will see the following logs in your build console:
```

.. code-block::

   ################### OPENTHREAD REPORT ###################
   + Target device: nrf52840
   + Thread version: v1.3
   + Feature set: master
   + OpenThread Library from nrfxlib: openthread/lib/cortex-m4/soft-float/v1.3/master/
   + OpenThread NCS revision: thread-reference-20230706-755-ga759a4a09
   + NCS revision: v2.7.0-882-g3097ca5d36

>    ###################        END        ###################

Reviewer 2: Can we have an example presenting how the potential changes between certified and current nrfxlib look like? I think it would be nice to show where user should look for such information.

Author: I've added such information, please take a look.

> The generated build artefact will also include the list of changes in the nrfxlib directory.

Reviewer: The first description said repository, this says directory. Is the difference meaningful?

Author: I will modify it to explain it better.

> If there are no changes related to the used Thread library it means that you can use :ref:`ug_thread_cert_inheritance_without_modifications`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If there are no changes related to the used Thread library, you can use :ref:`ug_thread_cert_inheritance_without_modifications`.
```

> Any changes in the used Thread library that were detected and shown in the report you will need to contact Thread Group to check if certification by inheritance is still possible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the report shows any changes detected in the used Thread library, you will need to contact the Thread Group to check if certification by inheritance is still possible.
```

> While building the application and Thread stack from its source files the OpenThread report will be different and you will see the following logs in your build console:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When building the application and Thread stack from its source files, the OpenThread build report will be different and you will see the following logs in your build console:
```
Another option here is to have the two different ways of building as tabs, to show more clearly that they're options.

Author: Yeah, I thought about it, I will add it here because indeed it will be better.

Author: I've added it, let's see what it will look like after the doc build.

.. code-block::

   ################### OPENTHREAD REPORT ###################
   + Target device: nrf52840
   + Thread version: v1.3
   + Feature set: master
   + OpenThread library has been built from sources
   + OpenThread NCS revision: thread-reference-20230706-755-ga759a4a09
   + NCS revision: v2.7.0-882-g3097ca5d36
   ###################        END        ###################

> There will be an information that Thread library has been build from sources and it cannot be used for :ref:`ug_thread_cert_inheritance_without_modifications`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There will be an information that the Thread library has been build from sources and it cannot be used for :ref:`ug_thread_cert_inheritance_without_modifications`.
```

To add an nRF52840 DK, drag the nRF52840 DK and drop it on the test bed configuration page.
After that, the device is configured and the :ref:`proper baud rate (115200) <test_and_optimize>` and COM port are set.

.. _ug_thread_build_report:

OpenThread build report
***********************

The OpenThread build report contains information about:

   * The current |NCS| and OpenThread revisions.
   * The Thread feature set and Thread library path.
   * Changes in the :ref:`nrfxlib:nrfxlib` repository in comparison to the latest |NCS| release.

The report is generated to the output console log, and stored as an additional build artefact in the application build directory.

> Generating the OpenThread report is enabled by default if the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NET_L2_OPENTHREAD` is set to ``y``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Generating the OpenThread report is enabled by default if the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NET_L2_OPENTHREAD` Kconfig option is set to ``y``.
```

> It means that it is enabled for all samples that use Thread stack.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This means that it is enabled for all samples that use the Thread stack.
```

To disable the generation, set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_OPENTHREAD_REPORT` kconfig option to ``n``.
You can disable generating the build artefact by setting the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_OPENTHREAD_REPORT_BUILD_ARTEFACT` kconfig option to ``n``.

By default, the build artefact name is set as :file:`ot_report.txt`, but you can specify a different name by setting the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_OPENTHREAD_REPORT_BUILD_ARTEFACT_NAME` kconfig value to the new one.

> Depending on the way of delivering OpenThread libraries you will see the following logs in your build console:
> 
> .. tabs::
> 
>    .. group-tab:: building the application using the :ref:`nrfxlib:ot_libs`

Reviewer: The tab names seem to be a bit too long:
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/5c937881-0b2a-42b2-ac4e-5cc30335c972)
So moving some of the information to the introducing sentence.
```suggestion
Depending on if you build the application using the :ref:`nrfxlib:ot_libs` or if you build the application and Thread stack from the source files, you will see the following logs in your build console:

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: Using pre-built libraries
```

      If there are no changes related to the used Thread library, you can use :ref:`ug_thread_cert_inheritance_without_modifications`.
      If the report shows any changes detected in the used Thread library, you will need to contact the Thread Group to check if certification by inheritance is still possible.

      An example of the changes detected in the Thread library:

      .. code-block::

         ################### OPENTHREAD REPORT ###################
         + Target device: nrf52840
         + Thread version: v1.3
         + Feature set: master
         + OpenThread Library from nrfxlib: openthread/lib/cortex-m4/soft-float/v1.3/master/
         + OpenThread NCS revision: thread-reference-20230706-755-ga759a4a09
         + OpenThread NCS SHA: a759a4a09
         + NCS revision: v2.7.0-882-gb54367e5d7
         + NCS SHA: b54367e5d7
         + Found differences in the nrfxlib repository in comparison to NCS v2.7.0. See the ot_report.txt report file to learn more.
         ###################        END        ###################

      You can look at the report file located in the application build directory to see the full list of changes.

>       For example, for :ref:`ot_cli_sample` you can find a report file in the default location: :file:`cli/build/cli/ot_report.txt`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      For example, for the :ref:`ot_cli_sample` sample, you can find a report file in the default location: :file:`cli/build/cli/ot_report.txt`.
```

>    .. group-tab:: building the application and Thread stack from its source files

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   .. group-tab:: From source files
```

      .. code-block::

         ################### OPENTHREAD REPORT ###################
         + Target device: nrf52840
         + Thread version: v1.3
         + Feature set: master
         + OpenThread library has been built from sources
         + OpenThread NCS revision: thread-reference-20230706-755-ga759a4a09
         + OpenThread NCS SHA: a759a4a09
         + NCS revision: v2.7.0-882-gb54367e5d7
         + NCS SHA: b54367e5d7
         ###################        END        ###################

>       There will be an information that the Thread library has been build from sources and it cannot be used for :ref:`ug_thread_cert_inheritance_without_modifications`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      The information shows that the Thread library has been build from sources, so it cannot be used for :ref:`ug_thread_cert_inheritance_without_modifications`.
```
